source of this page is : https://nust.edu.pk/admissions/scholarships/frequently-asked-questions-faqs/

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Q. How many types of financial aid are offered?​​

    There are three types of financial aid offered by NUST:
        Need based scholarships.
        Merit based scholarships / financial assistance.
        Interest free loans.

Q. When and How to Apply for Financial Aid?​​

    Under Graduate (UG) & Masters (MS) candidates apply for financial aid immediately after submitting online admission application.
    To apply candidates are required to submit online NUST need Based Financial Aid Application Form (NFAAF).
    Due date for submitting NFAAF is the same as that of the online admission application. Due date for MS & UG is tentatively May & June 2022 respectively. Please visit NUST admission portal for exact dates.
    Financial Aid Applications will not be accepted separately after due date.

Q. Who can apply for financial aid?​​

    All UG & Masters candidate(s) are eligible to apply for financial aid​ at the time of admission.

Q. Does applying for financial aid have any effect on admission application?

OR

I have completed my admission application but I have not filled / partially filled the financial aid application and I am not interested to apply for financial aid. Will leaving the financial aid form unfilled / partially filled, effect my admission application?​​

    No, financial aid application has no effect on admission decision.

Q. What is meant by physical verification?​​

    NUST team may visit your house, business premises or carry out inquiry from the surrounding neighbors to ​physically verify facts stated by you while applying for financial aid. Physical Verification may be carried out at any point of time during academic life cycle at NUST.

Q. I have submitted NFAAF and attached soft copies of supporting documents too, do I need to send hard copies of supporting documents? If yes, When?​​

    You do not need to send supporting documents to FAO immediately after submitting NFAAF.
    After due processing, FAO will inform you via email to mail the documents in hard form, within a due date.  Failure to provide documents within due date will lead to cancellation of NFAAF.

Q. I want to apply for​ other need based scholarships like PEEF, CMEEF KPK, FEF etc. Do I need to submit another application form?​​

    Upon submitting NFAAF, you will be considered for all types of need based scholarships. FAO will inform you incase any additional form / document is required.

Q. I do not have few of the supporting documents. What should i do? 

OR

I need more time to arrange the supporting documents. Please allow me to submit NFAAF and provide supporting documents in a few more working days.​​​

    You may attach scan copy of a hand written letter of explanation​ (duly signed by you and your parent / guardian).
    Briefly explain reason of not attaching the supporting document and expected date till you will provide the same to Financial Aid Office.

Q. I am trying to upload soft copy of the supporting documents but the system is not saving them. What should i do?​​

    File size of each of the supporting document should be less than 250 kb. Resize the scan copy of supporting document and try uploading the same.
    If problem persists, you may forward a screen shot of the error to fao-1@nust.edu.pk.

Q. I have been offered admission in two or more disciplines and have NOT been offered scholarship in ALL of these disciplines. Is this provisional scholarship offer valid for only specific disciplines?​​​

    Scholarship offered is valid for ALL disciplines offered admission in a particular selection list e.g if you secure admission in BS Physics, Chemistry & Maths in the 1st selection list, provisional admission letters wi​ll have the same scholarship offer.
    If you have NOT been offered scholarship in any of the disciplines, please write to us at fao-1@nust.edu.pk.

Q. I have secured admission (for example in BS Civil Engineering in 1st selection list) and have been offered need based scholarship. Will this scholarship be transferred to other discipline(s) I am offered admission in subsequent selection list(s). How will the scholarship be transferred to other disciplines? What happens to the scholarship offer if I don’t pay dues now and wait for securing admission in subsequent lists? ​​

    Scholarship is awarded on merit cum need basis i.e on the basis of a candidates’ position on the financial need scale in a particular selection list.
    Scholarship once offered to you may be transferred to ALL other offered disciplines, only if you have already deposited dues to secure admission / scholarship i.e for BS Civil Engineering in 1st selection list in the example above. To transfer scholarship offer to other disciplines, you will be required to give willingness to admission office (ugadmissions@nust.edu.pk , admissions@nust.edu.pk).
    Scholarship offered to you- for BS Civil Engg in the example above- will be cancelled incase you do not deposit dues, and vacant slot will be offered in the subsequent selection list on merit cum need basis.

Q. My Financial Profile Has Changed After Submission Of NFAAF. How Can I Make Changes In NFAAF After Submission? OR ​I Have Made Mistakes In The NFAAF. I Cannot Access It After Submission. How Can I Get It Corrected?​​

    You will be required to inform FAO via email (fao-1@nust.edu.pk) specifically mentioning the following:
        Section of NFAAF.
        Sub section of NFAAF.
        Title of the Field(s) to be amended.
        Amended​ Values.
    If necessary, someone from the FAO may contact you on contact numbers (provided in the NFAAF) to acquire additional information from you / family members.

​Q. What Happens If My Parents Are Divorced, Separated And One Parent Is Unwilling To Submit Any Information To The Financial Aid Office Or To Contribute Towards My NUST Expenses?​​​

    ​​In fairness to all, NUST expects that parents will pay what they can, and we must assess each parent’s ability to contribute to college costs by reviewing complete financial documents from both parents.
    You might explain to the parent, unwilling to submit financial information, that his or her information will remain confidential. Your parent should also know that providing such information no way obligates him or her to contribute to your NUST education.
    If you believe your situation is special, please write us a detailed letter of explanation.​

Q. May I Send The Deed Of Agreement In The Same Envelope In Which I Am Sending Admission Documents?​​​

    Deed of agreement is to be forwarded to Financial Aid Office separately​.

Q. What Is The Need Assessment Process?​​

    The decision and its review follow the stages outlined below:
    The staff at the financial aid office (FAO) checks and reconciles the information on the financial aid form against the documents provided including their tenor and validity; seeking clarifications from the applicant/ student on anomalies, if any.
    Applicants are contacted for retrieval of discrepant documents (where necessary).
    FAO prepares student evaluation sheets that contain a brief summary of the credentials provided covering all the aspects to be presented to the financial aid committee for final decision.
    Shortlisted Candidates are informed to submit supporting documentation in hard form by the deadline specified by the financial aid office.
    Interviews / Physical Verifications are conducted where recommended by the committee.
    The NUST financial aid committee assesses each case through the evaluation sheet and reviews supporting documents before making their decision which is purely based on need.
    Decision is communicated to the students through an official provisional scholarship award letter.
    The Financial Aid Office reserves the right to conduct periodic reviews to ensure the award is granted to the needy students only.

Q. My Father / Guardian / Earning Member Of The Family Does Not Have A Job. What Type Of Income Certificate Should I Give?​​

    Father / Guardian / Earning Member(s) of the Family will give a Declaration of monthly income from all sources on affidavit to be printed on stamp paper having value > Rs.100, duly attested by Union Councilor & two witnesses. At least one of the witnesses is to be a Govt. officer of BPS 17 or above & the other a close family member well acquainted with your family financial profile. Contact numbers of the witnesses to be mentioned on the affidavit.

Q. My Father / Guardian Does Business. What Type Of Income Certificate Should I Give?​​

    Father / Guardian / Earning Member(s) of the Family will give a Declaration of monthly income from all sources (business) on affidavit to be printed on stamp paper having value > Rs.100, duly attested by Union Councilor & two witnesses. At least one of the witnesses is to be a Govt. officer of BPS 17 or above & the other a close family member well acquainted with your family financial profile. Contact numbers of the witnesses to be mentioned on the affidavit.

Q. My Father / Guardian Does Job And Has A Part Time Business (Agriculture, Taxi, Tuition, Shop Etc). What Type Of Income Certificate Should I Give?​​

    Father / Guardian / Earning Member(s) of the Family will give salary certificate and a Declaration of monthly income from all sources (job & Business) on affidavit to be printed on stamp paper having value > Rs.100, duly attested by Union Councilor & two witnesses. At least one of the witnesses is to be a Govt. officer of BPS 17 or above & the other a close family member well acquainted with your family financial profile. Contact numbers of the witnesses to be mentioned on the affidavit.

Q. Our Monthly Income Is From Agricultural Lands. What Type Of Income Certificate Should I Give?​​​

    Father / guardian will a Declaration of monthly income​ from all sources on affidavit to be printed on stamp paper having value > Rs.100, duly attested by Assistant Commissioner Revenue / Union Councilor & two witnesses. At least one of the witnesses is to be a Govt. officer of BPS 17 or above & the other a close family member well acquainted with your family financial profile. Contact numbers of the witnesses to be mentioned on the affidavit.

Q. I Was Awarded A Scholarship From A Private Outside Organization. Do I Need To Inform Financial Aid Office?​​

    Yes, if you receive an outside grant or scholarship or a third-party payment you must report the type and amount to the FAO as and when received.

Q. Can I Apply F​Or The Financial Aid During The Semester/Year?​​

    Only those students, whose financial situation changes drastically, due to unforeseen circumstances e.g. Retirement, death, layoffs from job etc. can apply for financial assistance during the semester/ year through their institutions.​

Q. What Is The Criteria Of Awarding Financial Aid?​​

    The scholarship management committee assesses financial need of all candidates and determines whether or not candidates family has sufficient resources to afford fee at NUST. The need is determined on the basis of the financial credentials submitted by the candidate.

Q. Can a student appeal for review of the financial assistance decision?​​

    There is an appeal process in place in which the NUST administration accepts requests from students who have additional information to declare, which may have been missed during the initial assessment.



Question: How frequently are University fee rates revised?

University fees are usually announced once each year, for the following academic year. However, fees are subject to change without notice.

    01. For Undergraduate Programs
        Question: What is the fee payable at the time of Admission for National Students?
        A student has to pay the following fees at the time of admission:
            Admission processing fee
            1st Semester Tuition Fee
            Security deposit (refundable)
            University Administrative Charges (Annual) for NSHS MBBS Program
            PM&DC Registration Fee (Annual) for NSHS MBBS Program
            For fee detail please click on the below link:

Question: What is the fee payable at the time of Admission for International students?

        A student has to pay the following fees at the time of admission:
            Admission processing fee
            Tuition Fee for 1st  year / 2 semesters (Fall & Spring) for all others
            Security deposit (refundable)
            For fee detail please click on the below link:

https://nust.edu.pk/admissions/fee-structure/undergraduate-financial-matters/

        Question: If a student initially selected in an Engineering program has paid all dues, but later on, s/he is also selected in any other program i.e. Medical, Business / Social Sciences etc. and vice versa, would the deposited fee get adjusted / refunded in the late
        Yes all paid dues including admission processing fee will be adjusted for the finally selected program. However, difference in fee (if any) will be charged / refunded accordingly.
        Question: A student is initially selected on SAT (International stream) seat and has paid all dues, later on s/he gets selected on SAT (National stream) seat and vice versa, would his / her admission processing fee be refunded/adjusted?
        Yes all paid dues including admission processing fee, will be adjusted for the finally selected program. However, difference in fee (if any) will be charged / refunded accordingly.
        Question: What would be the fee for a complete degree program?
        All Undergraduate programs (BE, BS, B Arch) are structured. Student registered in any UG 4-year degree program has to pay tuition fee for 08 regular semesters (Fall & Spring) and B Architecture (Fall & Spring) students will pay tuition fee for 5 years. This period of payment will be applicable in both the cases, if the student has qualified and completed the degree requirements in 4 and 5 years respectively.  However, in case of Suspension / Deferment of Semester, the duration of the degree program will increase. Student will pay 25% tuition fee for the suspended / deferred semester(s). 100% tuition fee will be charged on taking up courses of suspended / deferred semester(s).
        Question: If a student repeats her / his course(s) in regular semester, would s/he be charged any fee?
        Yes , course repetition / improvement fee will be charged in a regular semester.
        Question: If a student takes a course(s) in summer semester at what rate the fee will be charged?
        Summer semester fee will be as per the prescribed credit hours rates on the below given link:

https://nust.edu.pk/admissions/fee-structure/undergraduate-financial-matters/

        Question: What amount of fee will be charged for deferment/suspension of semester?
        A student will pay 25% of the semester tuition fee for Deferment / Suspension of semester, however, in case of deferment of 1st semester, 100% tuition fee will be charged.
        Question: What amount of fee will be charged as Make-up/retake exam Fee for a Missed OHT/Mid Semester Exam/End Semester Exam?
        A student will pay Rs. 5,000/- per paper as Make-up/retake exam Fee for a Missed OHT/MSE/ESE.
    02. For Masters Programs
        Question: What is the minimum and maximum degree completion time?
        ​Minimum degree completion time is 1½ academic years (3 regular semesters), whereas maximum time is 4 years.
        Question: How much, and for what duration a student has to pay tuition fee for the complete degree program?
        ​Student will be charged full tuition fee for maximum 4 regular semesters (2 academic years). However, beyond the stipulated 2 years period a student will be required to pay Bench Fee along with the prescribed course fee for deficient/improvement/repeat courses (if any). Fee during Summer Semester will be credit hours based. If a student completes the degree requirements within 30 days of commencement of 4th semester, s/he would be charged fee for three regular semesters only (i.e., Fall, Spring & Fall). The tuition fee (if paid) for the fourth semester would be refunded to the student as per procedure.
        Question: If a student repeats course(s) in a regular semester, would s/he be charged any fee?
        Yes, fee will be charged for course repetition / improvement during a regular semester on per credit hour rate prescribed in below given link:

https://nust.edu.pk/admissions/fee-structure/postgraduate-financial-matters/

        Question: What amount of tuition fee will be charged for deferment / suspension of semester?
        ​A student shall pay 25% of the semester fee for Deferment / Suspension of semester, however, in case of deferment of 1st semester, 50 % tuition fee will be charged.
        Question: At what rate, tuition fee will be charged from EMBA students?
        ​The tuition fee for EMBA students is charges per course (how many courses a student choses for the semester). The per course fee is mentioned in the below link:

https://nust.edu.pk/admissions/fee-structure/postgraduate-financial-matters/

        Question: At what rate business project fee will be charged from EMBA students?
        ​Since there are two projects containing 03 credit hours each. Therefore, one course fee will be charged for each project.
        Question: If a student of EMBA drops a course after two weeks will s/he be charged a course fee?
        ​The student of EMBA will be allowed to drop a course any time before the start of the End Semester examination week, with an award of letter grade ‘W’. However, course fee is non-refundable if a student drops a course after two weeks from commencement of semester.
        Question: Will there be any charges for reading material from EMBA students?
        ​Reading material fee will be charged annually in Fall Semester and it is mandatory for every EMBA student to pay till completion of coursework.
        Question: What amount of fee will be charged as Make-up/retake exam Fee for a Missed OHT/Mid Semester Exam/End Semester Exam?
        A student will pay Rs. 5,000/- per paper as Make-up/retake exam Fee for a Missed OHT/MSE/ESE.
    03. For PhD Programs
        Question: What do you mean by a regular semester?
        ​Fall and Spring are regular semesters. Summer is not a regular semester rather it is a make-up semester. A student can repeat a course to improve CGPA or s/he can clear her / his ‘F’ grade(s) during summer semester on payment of fee (credit hours based). A student can also take additional / optional course(s) on payment of prescribed fee (credit hours based).
        Question: How much and for what duration a PhD student has to pay tuition fee for the complete degree program?
        ​PhD students will be charged full tuition fee for 3 academic years (6 regular semesters). Thereafter, s/he will be required to pay Bench Fee on the prescribed rate till completion of the degree.
        Question: What amount of fee will be charged as Make-up/retake exam Fee for a Missed OHT/Mid Semester Exam/End Semester Exam?
        A student will pay Rs. 5,000/- per paper as Make-up/retake exam Fee for a Missed OHT/MSE/ESE.
        Question: If a student takes course(s) in summer semester and completes the coursework before 03 academic years, would s/he will be required to pay full tuition fee for complete 03 years (06 regular semesters)?
        ​Yes, every student has to pay full tuition fee for 06 regular semesters and Bench Fee on the prescribed rate till completion of the degree. However, summer semester fee will be credit hours based in addition to this. Fee rates are mentioned in the link given below:

https://nust.edu.pk/admissions/fee-structure/postgraduate-financial-matters/